Linear regression is a very common
algorithm to build regression models.
After this video you will be able to
describe how linear regression works,
discuss how least squares is used in
linear regression, define simple and
multiple linear regression.
A linear regression model captures the
relationship between a numerical output
and the input variables.
The relationship is modeled as
a linear relationship hence the linear
in linear regression.
To see how linear regression works, let's
take a look at an example from the Iris
flower dataset, which is a commonly
used dataset for machine learning.
This dataset has samples of
different species of iris flowers
along with measurements such as
petal width and petal length.
Here we have a plot with petal width
measurements in centimeters on the x axis,
and petal length
measurements on the y axis.
Let's say that we want to predict
petal length based on petal width.
Then the regression task is this,
given a measurement for
petal width predict the petal length.
We can build a linear regression model to
capture this linear relationship between
the input petal width and
the output petal length.
The linear relationship for this samples
is shown as the red line on the plot.
From this example we see that linear
regression works by finding the best
fitting straight line,
through the samples.
This is called the regression line.
In the simple case with
just one input variable,
the regression line is simply a line.
The equation for a line is y = mx + b,
where m determines
the slope of the line and
b is the y intercept or
where the line crosses the y axis.
M and b are the parameters of the model.
Training a linear regression model
means adjusting these parameters to
fit the regression line to the samples.
The regression line can be
determined using what's referred to
as the least squares method.
This plot illustrates how
the least squares method works.
The yellow dots are the data samples.
The red line is the regression line,
the straight line that
goes through the samples.
This line represents the model's
prediction of the output given the input.
Each green line indicates the distance
of each sample from the regression line.
So the green line represents
the error between the prediction,
which is the value of the red regression
line and the actual value of the sample.
The square of this distance is
referred to as the residual
associated with that sample.
The least squares method
finds the regression line
that makes the sum of
the residuals as small as possible.
In other words, we want to find
the line that minimizes the sum
of the squared errors of prediction.
The goal of linear regression then is
to find the best fitting straight line
through the samples using
the least squares method.
Once the regression model is built,
we can use it to make predictions.
For example,
given a measurement of 1.5 centimeters for
petal width, the model will predict
a value of 4.5 centimeters for
petal length base on the regression
line that it has constructed.
In linear regression, if there is only
one input variable then the task is
referred to as simple linear regression.
In cases with more than
one input variables,
then it is referred to as
multiple linear regression.
To summarize, linear regression
captures the linear relationship
between a numerical output and
the input variables.
The least squares method can be used
to build a linear regression model
by finding the best fitting
line through the samples.